how are you
i am a boy
i am good
i am fine
today is tuesday
what are you doing
he is happy
There are lots of simple sentences in English.
Here are some of them.
I have arranged my wardrobe.
Where are you?
Please, come in.
Leave there now.
Please go away.
I kept the food in the fridge.
He will give you his credentials.
History is my best subject.
What are you waiting for?
Love your neighbour.
The baby crept in slowly.
She must have been crying since morning.
Have you had your bath this morning?
Give me a call tomorrow at noon.
The man with his wife and two daughters came to the party in a new car.
I will have to take the long trip on the train back to Sokoto.
We did not hear your voice at all.
The combination of nature’s gentle touch coconut oil and tea tree oil improve the condition of the hair.
Nature’s gentle touch products are manufactured in Nigeria and South Africa.
He has his specialisation in the grammar of English.
She has been involved in the teaching and research in English grammar at the tertiary institution level for almost two decades.
Nigerian women require specific hair care solutions.
Hair conditioner is excellent for enhancing hair growth, treatment of hair and scalp problems.It is good to shop wisely.
A genius he is.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away.
Most people fry their eggs with tomatoes
Water melon contains 95% of water.
You should be happy.
God is our refuge in times of trouble.
An idle man is the devil’s workshop.
Lagos is the centre of excellence.
The pastor preached the message of love.
Joy always comes in the morning.
The election process in Nigeria is a very tough one.
I have to go now.
Lock up all the widows now.
Mercy said no.
Charity begins at home.
People call me ‘Beauty’.
Words seasoned with salt heal the soul.
Patience is a virtue.
Have you ever imagined yourself on a plane?
The rain will surely fall today.
In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth.
Get inside.
Susanna misses her childhood days.
These are some of the simple sentences in English.
John couldn’t travel last week because his wife was ill and because there was no one to look after her.
She left after the game ended in order to beat the time and prepare for the programme.
The frequent use of the dictionary tends to focus the readers’ attention on words when they should be concentrating on the main ideas of the passage.
Before segregation could be honoured and considered duly proper and protocol based, a formal letter is essential.
This collection marks a turning point in the field of digital humanities because, for the first time, a wide range of theorists and practitioners have been brought together.
Malpractice reached a new low in the 2018 West African Senior School Certificate Examination when answers to questions were uploaded to candidates in the hall through digital platforms.
Despite that this might have been the case, it does not totally confer innocence on the council.
Patronize a restaurant of people who are different from you because it fosters unity and integration.
When workers have few options for employment opportunities, they can get backed into a corner.
We must carefully look at the position of the nation’s constitution on the issue of state police before we take a final decision on the matter.
 I seeI quitLet goMe too
 My god!No way!Come on
 Hold on
 I agreeNot bad
 Not yet
 See you
 Shut up!So long
 Why not?Allow me
 Be quiet!Cheer up!Good job!Have fun!How much?I'm full
 I'm home
 I'm lost
 My treat
 So do I
 This way.After you
 Bless you!Follow me
 Forget it!Good luck!I decline!I promise
 Of course!Slow down!Take care!They hurt
 Try again
 Watch out!What's up?Be careful!Bottoms up!Don't move!Guess what?I doubt itI think so
 I'm single
 Keep it up!Let me see
 Never mind
 No problem !That's all !
Time is up
 What's new ?Count me onDon't worry
 Feel better ?I love you !I'm his fan
 Is it yours ?That's neat
 Are you sure?Do l have toHe is my age
 Here you are
 No one knows.Take it easy
 What a pity !Anything else ?To be careful !Do me a favor ?Help yourself
 I'm on a diet
 Keep in Touch
 Time is money
 Who's calling ?You did right
 You set me up !Can I help you?Enjoy yourself!Excuse me
Sir Give me a hand!How's it going?I have no idea
 I just made it!I'll see to itI'm in a hurry!It's her field
 It's up to you
 Just wonderful!What about you?You owe me one
 You're welcome
 Any day will do
 Are you kidding?Congratulations!I can't help it.I don't mean it.I'll fix you Up
 101. It sounds great!102. It's a fine day103. So far
So good What time is it?105. You can make it!106. Control yourself!107. He came by train
Holi is a festival of colors celebrated by the Hindus throughout India. Hindus celebrate Holi as a festival of love and happiness, shedding animosity, greed, hatred and adapting to a new life of love and togetherness.

Holi is celebrated in spring season, in the Hindu calendar month of Phalgun, which usually coincides with the Gregorian calendar month of March, or sometimes even late February. It is a two days festival commencing on a full moon night with holika dahan. Main holi festival is celebrated the next day of holika dahan.  It also coincides with the harvest of wheat and is symbolic of prosperity and happiness.

Spring marks the end of winter and is preceded by summer. Therefore, the climate of spring is particularly pleasing, when flowers abound. Thus, holi is celebrated as the festival of colors, to commemorate nature’s spring beauty and also the good harvest.

 

HOLI ESSAY 3 (200 WORDS)
Holi is one of the great festivals of India which is celebrated with great zeal, zest and enthusiasm. It is also called as the festival of colors during which people play with colors and splash colors on each other. Holi also signifies the triumph of good over evil as this was the day when evil king Hiranyakashyap was slayed by Narsimha, the half man and half lion incarnation of Lord Vishnu and saved Prahlad who was a devotee of him.

The celebration of Holi starts several days before the festival when people start buying colors, balloons, food items for the preparation of cuisines etc. Children are the one who are very much excited for Holi and start celebrating it in advance by splashing colors on their friends using water cannons or ‘pichkaris’. Markets around the cities and villages get decorated with ‘gulals’, colors, ‘pichkaris’ etc.

Holi is also a festival of harmony where friends and relatives get together in the evening or visit their friends, family and neighbours and greet them with colors and sweets. The mouth watering delicacies of Holi like ‘gujiya’, ‘laddoos’ and ‘thandai’ add a flavor to the season of festivity. People hug each other on Holi and give a new beginning by forgetting all the hatreds and sorrows.

HOLI ESSAY 4 (250 WORDS)
Introduction

Holi, the ‘Festival of Colors’ is celebrated in almost all parts of India with great excitement. As per the Hindu calendar, it is celebrated on the full moon day of the ‘Phalgun’ month and in the month of March as per the Gregorian calendar. People celebrate the festival by coloring each other’s face with dry as well as water colors. People also enjoy the festival by singing folk songs and dance.

The Celebration of Holi

One day prior to Holi, a ritual named ‘Holika Dahan’ is conducted in which a large heap of bonfire is burned in cities and villages. The ‘Holika Dahan’ symbolizes the burning of evil and negative powers and revisits the story of Holika, the evil sister of Hiranyakaskyap who tried to kill his nephew Prahlad by sitting in the bonfire. But by the god’s grace Holika who had a boon of immortality was burned to ashes and Prahlad was saved unharmed. People also make rounds of Holika while chanting devotional mantras and singing bhajans to seek health and prosperity.

During the day, people play by splashing water colors on each other. Children throw water colours by using water cannons or ‘pichkari’ to enjoy the festival. In the evening, people dress up in attractive attire and visit their friends and relatives and hug them by applying ‘gulal’, the dry colors. People also sing folk songs and dance to the tune of famous Holi songs.

Conclusion

Holi is the festival which spreads love, brotherhood, harmony and happiness and symbolizes the victory of good over evil. It is the festival during which people forget their rivalry and hug their enemies forgetting all the hatreds and negativity.

 

HOLI ESSAY 5 (300 WORDS)
Introduction

Holi is a most favorite festival of all as it brings lots of joy and happiness. It is celebrated every year especially by the people of Hindu religion as a very important festival. It falls in the start of spring season generally in the month of March (or Falgun). Everyone waits for this festival with lots of enthusiasm and with special preparations of celebrating it.

Why do we Celebrate Holi?

There is a great story of Prahlad behind celebrating Holi. Once Prahlad (who was a great devotee of God) was tried to be killed by his own father as he denied worshiping his own father in place of God. His aunt, Holika, sat in the fire by keeping him in her lap on the order of Prahlad’s father but he was saved by God as he was a true devotee and Holika was burnt in the fire even after she was booned to never get harmed by fire. From that day, people following Hinduism started celebrating the festival of Holi every year to remember the triumph of good over evil.

Burning of Holika

A day before colourful Holi festival, people burn a heap of woods and cow dung cakes in the night resembling the burning of Holika to remember that day. Some people follow the special ritual of burning the waste of ‘sarson ubtan’ massage of each family member in the Holika assuming that it will remove all the evils from house and body and bring happiness and positivity to home.

Conclusion

People play with colours with their family members, relatives, friends and neighbours. Kids of the house enjoy this day by throwing colour filled balloons to each other or using pichakari. Everyone hug and apply ‘abeer’ and ‘gulals’ to the forehead showing their love and affection to each other. Special preparations are done for this day like arrangements of sweets, chips, namkeen, dahi bade, pani puri, papadi, etc. Holi is the festival which spreads love and harmony among people.

HOLI ESSAY 6 (400 WORDS)
Introduction

Holi is a colourful and most important festival of India. It is celebrated annually in the month of March (Falgun) on Purnima or ‘pooranmashi’ by the people of Hindu religion. People wait for this festival very eagerly and enjoy by playing with colours and eating delicious foods. Children come out of their homes in the early morning with colours and pichkari to enjoy with friends. Women of the houses start preparing things for the Holi celebration especially delicious dishes, sweets, chips, namkeen and other things to welcome their neighbours, friends and relatives on Holi.

Holi – The Festival of Colors

Holi is a festival of joy and happiness which spreads colour and pleasure in the life of everyone. People throw water colours or colored powder (gulal) to each other and break all the barriers of discrimination between them. The significance behind celebrating this festival is the great history of Prahlad and his aunt Holika.

History of the Festival

Long ago, there was a devil king, Hiranyakashyap. He was the father of Prahlad and brother of Holika. He was booned by Lord Brahma that he cannot be killed by any man or animal, neither by any weapon, nor inside the home or outside or in the day or night. Getting such power he became very arrogant and ordered everyone including his own son to worship him instead of God.

Because of his fear, people started worshiping him except Prahlad as he was a true devotee of Lord Vishnu. After seeing such type of behaviour of Prahlad, Hiranyakashyap made a plan with sister Holika to kill Prahlad. He ordered his sister to sit in the fire by having Prahlad in her lap. Holika did so, but fortunately she got burnt in the fire and Prahlad was not harmed and even not touched by the fire as he was under the protection and blessings of God.

From then, people started celebrating this event as Holi festival after the name of Holika. This festival is celebrated to remember the victory of goodness over evil power. In the night or evening, a day before Holi, people burn a heap of wood in the nearby areas symbolizing burning of Holika.

Conclusion

Everyone enjoys this festival by singing, dancing, playing colours, hugging each other and eating delicious food. Holi is the festival which brings people closer and spreads love and brotherhood among people. People spend the festival with their friends, family and relatives with great joy and enjoy the special delicacies of the occasion.

 

HOLI ESSAY 7 (500 WORDS)
Introduction

Holi is a very famous festival of colours celebrated every year in the month of ‘Phalgun’ or March by the people of India with great joy. It is the festival of lots of fun and frolic activities especially for the children who start the celebration a week before and continue a week after the festival. Holi is celebrated by the people of Hindu religion all over the country especially in North India in the month of March.

Legend and Story behind the Festival

There are many stories and legends behind celebrating Holi in India for years. It is the festival of great importance and significance. According to the Hindu mythology, it is considered that Holi celebration was started long ago when Holika was burnt in the fire while trying to kill her own nephew in the fire.

It is believed that there was a demon king called Hiranyakashyap, father of little Prahlad who tried to kill his own son in the fire when Prahlad denied to worship him as Prahlad was a great devotee of the Lord Vishnu. When Hiranyakashyap failed in many of his strategies to kill Prahlad, he ordered his own sister, Holika to sit in the fire by taking Prahlad in her lap as she was booned for never getting harmed by fire.

However, this strategy was also failed as little Prahlad was a devotee of Lord Vishnu and he was saved by his God. Holika was burnt in the fire and Prahlad was saved. From that day, people of Hindu religion started celebrating Holi every year.

Holika and its Customs

The day before Holi, people make a heap of woods on the cross roads and burn it symbolizing Holika and celebrate ‘Holika Dahan’ ceremony. People also take many rounds of the burning Holika and worship it to get blessed with prosperity and good health by burning all the sins and diseases in the fire. There is also a custom in north India where people massage the body using mustard paste and then burn it in Holika hoping to get rid of all diseases and evils of the body.

How do we celebrate Holi?

The next morning after ‘Holika Dahan’, people celebrate the colourful festival of Holi by getting together at one place and throwing colors to each other playfully. Holi preparations start a week before the main festival. People, especially children, are highly enthusiastic who start buying different colours a week before the day.

Even they start playing with colours with their friends, neighbours and relatives with ‘pichkari’ and small balloons. The celebration gets started in the morning when people with lots of colors visit their friends and relatives and color them. Holi delicacies comprise of ‘gujhiya’, sweets, ‘pani puri’, ‘dahi bade’, chips etc which are enjoyed by the guests and as well as by the hosts.

Conclusion

Holi is the festival which is mostly focused on spreading brotherhood and love. The colors used in the festival are bright which showcases the prosperity and happiness. Holi also symbolizes the triumph of good over evil which is the soul of most of the Indian festivals. It also teaches us to follow the righteous path and to stay away from evils of the society.

LONG ESSAY ON HOLI FESTIVAL – ESSAY 8 (1500 WORDS)
Introduction

Holi is a major Hindu festival celebrated with much fun and enthusiasm throughout India, as well as other countries of the sub continent. The customs and rituals of Holi celebration may vary between different regions of India, but all of them involve joyous playing with colours. It is a much awaited festival for playful adventurers as well as for the foodies, not to mention the children. Celebrated in the Phalgun month, the festival marks the arrival of spring and the end of winter. The celebration usually falls in late February or middle of March as per the Gregorian calendar.

Holi – a festival of Colors, Joy and Love

Holi is different from other Hindu festivals in the way that it doesn’t require veneration of any deity, as is mandatory with other festivals. The festival calls for pure joy, with no religious obligations what so ever.

It’s impossible to imagine Holi celebrations without colours. It is in fact also called- the festival of colours. People play with coloured powders locally called gulal. They spray gulal on friends and family members, greeting each other “Happy Holi” and hugging. Children could be seen playing in groups with various types of water guns (pichkari).

The houses and streets all get coloured with a combination of beautiful and bright red, yellow, blue, orange and violet. With the chilly winds of winter gone, people wear lose clothes and sprinkle each other with colours and coloured water. Everyone is painted in different colours from tip to toe; so much so, that it takes a moment or two to recognize even one’s closest friend.

The Legend of Holika Dahan

Holi is a two day festival, beginning on the evening of full moon day (Purnima) in the Hindu month of Phalgun. The colour Holi is played on second day morning.

The first day of Holi is called Choti (Small) Holi and a ritual of Holika Dahan is followed in the evening. Bonfires are made at street junctions or other suitable places in market, roads, streets, colonies etc. People burn their old belongings in the fire, symbolic to burning their feelings of envy, hatred and animosity. The ritual also signifies the victory of good over evil.

One of the commonly accepted legends of Holika Dahan is associated with the demon king Hiranyakashyap and his son Prahlada. Prahlada was an ardent devotee of Lord Vishnu; this infuriated Hiranyakashyap, who thought of himself as the God, in wake of the immortality boon that was granted to him. However, his son Prahlada was adamant in his resolve to worship Vishnu and rejected worshipping his own father, Hiranyakashyap.

Dejected by his own son, Hiranyakashyap got enraged and started subjecting Prahlada to torture, in order to persuade him to relent. When Prahlada refused regularly, Hiranyakashyap conspired with his sister Holika to trick Prahlada on sitting over a burning pyre with her. Holika supposedly had a boon granting her protection from burning in a fire. The evil plan was to burn Prahlada in the pyre, while Holika will be protected by the boon.

Holika finally succeeded in agreeing Prahlada to sit in the pyre with her. Prahlada agreed as he had extreme faith in his deity Vishnu. Holika got seated in the pyre with child Prahlada in her lap. As soon as the pyre was lit, Lord Vishnu intervened to save Prahlada and Holika was burnt to ashes, despite the boon. The boon granted to Holika didn’t worked, because; the immortality was granted to her only if she entered a fire alone.

Thus, people burn pyre on Choti Holi symbolic to the burning of evil Holika and also to welcome the colourful celebrations the next day.

Lath Mar Holi at Barsana

In the compound of Radha Rani temple at Barsana a small town near Mathura, the custom of Lath Mar Holi is being celebrated since centuries. Men from the nearby Nandgaon, visit Barsana where women would hit them with sticks, traditionally called lathis in Hindi. Men on the other hand, would protect themselves with shields and those who got caught are made to dance wearing women attire.

The Lath Mar Holi of Barsana has become so popular that millions of native Indians as well as foreign tourists visit Barsana to witness the celebrations.

Lose Your Inhibitions and Play with Colours

The festival of Holi has many positive effects on one’s personality as well as social relations. It is a festival to discard your shyness and make new friends. What could be the better way to make new friends than to by play with colours?

The festival helps you to identify the inner joy, which had been lying suppressed inside you. Discard your shyness, hesitation and all the emotions those have been holding you back in daily life. With just a little effort from your side, you will transit to a new world of colour, love and joy.

Spray colour on whoever you can, without any hesitation, thus, you will make new friends and will sure remember the celebrations. All you need to do is to lighten your soul by shedding all your inhibitions.

Time to Forgive and Forget

Holi is a festival of joy. True joy is a matter of soul rather than the body. If we are physically fit, but keep the feeling of hatred or animosity against someone, we cannot be happy in true sense. Whether you have done wrong onto someone or someone has done wrong onto you, in both the cases it’s your inner joy that suffers.

The celebration of Holi provides a marvelous opportunity to turn your enmity into friendship or repair a broken relationship. Shed all your hatred and forgive the sinner, or forget if someone or something has offended you or made you sad. When we shed all the bad feelings and open our arms to the joy and a new world, we will be happier.

The custom of visiting houses of friends and relatives is a major ritual during the Holi season. The custom continues for weeks even after the Holi celebrations. It is the best time to repair broken relationships or to renew the forgotten ones.

Indian Holi Delicacies for the Platter

Holi is undoubtedly the festival of colours, but it is also a festival of delicacies for those with an appetite for sweets and other mouthwatering dishes. There are hundreds of literally mouth watering dishes prepared during Holi, in various corners of India. Every region and culture of India has its own signature Holi delicacy.

The air is filled with a mix of sweet aroma and the essence of numerous fried delicacies those are prepared in abundance in every household. Ghujiya, a sweet delicacy popular in north India, prepared by deep frying dough pockets filled with khoya (a kind of milk food) and nuts, is one of my favourites. Dahi Vada is another Holi delicacy which has its roots in northern India.

In the state of Maharashtra, Puran Poli is prepared during the Holi festival. It is also Maharashtra’s festival favorite and is prepared in almost all the festivals. It is basically a flat dough chapati filled with sweet chana dal.

This Holi ‘Say no to Synthetic Colours’

Holi being a festival of colours, lots of temporary shops could be seen selling rather cheep colours. The colours available in form of powder often constitute toxic metals like copper, mercury, aluminum and lead. They may also contain harmful dyes and paints, not suitable for use by humans.

Use of cheap synthetic colours, results in a number of ailments, ranging from a mild skin rash to as serious as cancer. Cases of skin lesions, burning sensation and eye irritation are reported during the Holi festival, possibly due to the toxic compounds in the colours. Synthetic colours are often prepared with a base of corn starch or flour, whose contamination makes the situation worst.

Fortunately, people are getting more aware about the harmful effects of synthetic colours. A custom of using naturally derived colours is developing and is being practiced widely. By switching to colours derived from natural resources, we not only save our health but the health of environment as well. Natural colours when enter soil or water resources do not pollute them like the synthetic colours do.

Natural colours are derived from natural harmless minerals like gulal, mehndi, turmeric etc. Flowers are also used to produce colours, like red colour is produced from roses; yellow colour is produced from sunflower. Besides, many natural colour dyes can be produced from plants and flowers.

Conclusion

Holi is a festival of colour, celebrated with fun and joy. Get ready to drench in water and colour, but also be careful to not to harm yourself and others. Open your mind, shed your inhibitions, make new friends, pacify the unhappy ones and repair broken relationships. Be playful but also be sensitive to others. Don’t trouble anyone unnecessarily and always keep your conduct composed. Last but not the least; take a resolve to play only with natural colours this Holi
People around the world are fond of keeping pet animals. While most people stick to dogs and cats, many break this convention and go for rabbits, turtles, snakes, monkeys, horses and what not. It is great to have pets around.

People who own pets recommend the same to everyone. Most people pet animals for their love for them while others pet them for their need for instance for security purpose, companionship, etc. However, whatever be the case pets eventually become an integral part of the family. Here are some essays on ‘My Pet Animal’ under various words limit to help you with the topic in your exam or class tests. You can select any My Pet Animal essay according to your need:

LONG AND SHORT MY PET ANIMAL ESSAY IN ENGLISH
MY PET ANIMAL ESSAY 1 (200 WORDS)
I have a very cute little spotted cat as a pet. I have named it Isabella. It is very warm and friendly. It has been with us since the last two years and has become an important part of our family. I and my sister are extremely fond of it. We love playing with it all the time.

I have always been very fond of cats. I often kept a bowl of milk in my backyard to attract cats to come to our place. Some cats and small kittens came to our place every day. I also fed them with bread and chapatti. Quite often they even slept under a chair kept in our backyard. I also visited animal shelter to give food to stray cats. Looking at my fondness for these friendly creatures, my mother decided to bring one home.

On my 7th birthday, my mother took me to an animal shelter early morning and surprised me by telling me that I can adopt one of the cats there. My heart went out for a brown coloured spotted kitten sleeping peacefully at a corner and I brought it home. This is how Isabella came to our lives.

I do not only play with Isabella but also take care of its cleanliness. We bathe her once every 15 days. Isabella is quite fond of fish and we serve it the same quite frequently. Life is so much better with its presence.

 

MY PET ANIMAL ESSAY 2 (300 WORDS)
Introduction

People mostly keep cats, dogs, fishes and birds as pets. These are all adorable however none can beat the charm of the pet I have. I have a monkey as a pet. Its name is Chimpu. Many people find it weird and are even scared of coming to our house because of it. But I totally adore it.

How I convinced my Family to Pet a Monkey?

I always loved monkeys and wanted to pet one. I often saw these as pets in the movies. However, I had never met anyone in real life who had a monkey for a pet. When I expressed my wish to pet a monkey my parents laughed at the thought and dismissed it stating it was a vague demand. However, I soon convinced them and brought an infant monkey to my place. It was just adorable as a baby and my parents became as fond of it as me.

Taking Care of My Pet Monkey

Since no body we knew had a pet monkey and we had no clue about how to take care of it, we called for professional help. Initially, a monkey trainer visited our place every week to train Chimpu to adapt to our ways. It also instructed us on how to take care of our pet. We soon understood how monkeys behaved. We learned the ways to keep them calm and the things that infuriated them. He also told us how to ensure its cleanliness and what and how to feed it. We started taking care of Chimpu in exactly the same way.

Conclusion

Chimpu is very warm and friendly. It has been with us since it was an infant and is thus extremely attached to us. It also loves having guests at home. It enjoys when we have get together at home. It is super fun to be around Chimpu.

MY PET ANIMAL ESSAY 3 (400 WORDS)
Introduction

A rabbit is one such animal that everyone just adores. It is loved for its cute look and adorable activities. Though it is a bit difficult to take care of these gentle creatures, I decided to pet them just because I found them extremely cute.

I researched on the internet and also consulted the pet shop owner and came to know that rabbits are happier and live long if they have company. So I decided to get home two cute little rabbits instead of going for just one. Both my rabbits are pure white in colour. I have named them Bunny and Betty. They are my lifelines. While my mother was against petting an animal especially rabbits, she soon grew fond of them. She helps me take good care of both of them.

Cleanliness and Grooming

Both Bunny and Betty have white fur. The fur often attracts dust, dirt and germs. We help them get rid of it by brushing them gently every 3-4 days. We have a special wide-toothed comb for the same. We have kept separate combs for both the rabbits. Bunny and Betty love the combing sessions. They sit in my mother’s lap and enjoy this activity. My mother washes the combs thoroughly and dries them after every combing session.

We make sure to get their hair trimmed to an inch. It is easier to maintain their fur when it is trimmed. Long fur attracts more germs and is also difficult to brush. My mother also trims their nails every once in a while to ensure hygiene.

Eating Habits and Behaviour

My pet rabbits love eating carrots, grass, basil and various green leafy vegetables. We mainly feed them with leafy greens and give them carrots occasionally as the later contain high sugar content. We bring fresh leafy vegetables and grass for our bunnies every day and make sure they are well fed.

Just like small kids, Bunny and Betty love being pampered. They like sitting in my lap and just love it when I pat them or gently rub their head. They show their affection by licking me. They also love running around the house with me.

When I return home from school or tuition class, they joyfully run around my feet to show their love.

Conclusion

Both Bunny and Betty are quite warm, friendly and sociable. They are not only affectionate towards us but also welcome all our guests with warmth. Small kids in our neighbourhood often come to play with Bunny and Betty. They love playing with the kids.

MY PET ANIMAL ESSAY 4 (500 WORDS)
Introduction

I have a pet tortoise. I have named it Tortilla. Unlike other pet animals, tortoise is quite easy to pet. But this is something we had only read on the internet. We didn’t know anyone who had a tortoise as a pet and were not really sure how it was like to pet a tortoise. My parents agreed to bring it home on a trial basis initially. They made it clear that if we were able to maintain it and were comfortable with the way it behaved we would keep it. Else we would return it after a month. Thankfully, Tortilla adapted to the environment pretty soon and became a part of our family.

Tortilla’s Habitat

We brought a big Terrarium for Tortilla. We have kept a few plants and stones in it. Tortilla loves staying inside its cosy habitat. We make sure that the terrarium is cleaned every week to ensure hygiene. The enclosure is well-ventilated and also well-lit just the way tortoise like it. There is enough space for Tortilla to roam around. It loves roaming around its habitat. Tortoise can act shy at times and need a secure place to hide. Whenever we have guests at home, Tortilla hides behind the plants in the Terrarium and goes inside its shell. Since tortoise belong to the places with hot and humid climate, it is essential to maintain the same environment inside the Terrarium. We have thus kept it at a place where it gets direct sunlight. We also keep it damp so that Tortilla stays comfortable inside. Tortilla hides beneath the plants whenever it wants a cool atmosphere.

Tortilla’s Eating Habits

Tortilla loves eating different grasses. It is also fond of green leafy vegetables. We serve it with different green vegetables. Tortilla loves it when we maintain variety though it is particularly fond of cabbage, spring greens and cauliflower. We also ensure it gets fresh water. We have kept a shallow water bowl so that it can drink water easily. We change its water on a daily basis.

Tortilla’s Behaviour and Activities

Tortilla loves to soak up in the sun rays. It sits at the place where the sun rays are strong. It is quite active during the day time. We often take it out of the Terrarium when we are back from the school. It is fond of playing and being around us. It loves playing with a ball. We roll the ball towards it and it loves chasing and gripping it. At night, it sleeps for most part.

Conclusion

Tortilla is quite easy going and thus easy to maintain. It does not create any kind of fuss while eating. It is also easy to maintain its habitat. There are no cleanliness issues at home such as the ones you have when you pet a dog or a cat. It has been 3 years that Tortilla has been with us and we are now planning to bring home another tortoise to give it company. Both me and my brother are quite excited about it and have already started short listing names.


 
who are you
who am I 
she is pretty
I am going to
I am not good
who is this
thanks for your email
I will send you a link to a video
that's why I'm asking
I am fine 
A year has twelve months
can I pick this 
I will call you later
can I plug it 
A quality product of UK
this is special for you
she is moving to Florida
get out of here
may I come in sir 
I am in school / college
I want a refund for the books
I don't want to come
I will go to watch a movie


 Hello everyone.
Good morning everyone present here.
Who am i
I am a good boy
You are a good girl
I like you
You are the best
English is a good language
How are you
How is the weather today
The weather is pleasant
Did you eat food
Are you hiding. Did you study today. Tomorrow is my exam.
I love skating.
I have been to Maldives.
I hate going out in the sun.
It is too hot. I love eating cake. I eat chocolates daily.
Mayank pandey is a professor. He teaches networking.
 He is intelligent.
 She is beautiful.
 It is easy.
 We are happy.
 She is a beautiful girl. (NOT She is beautiful girl.)
 It was a difficult situation. (NOT It was difficult situation.)
 He is a dangerous criminal. OR He is dangerous.
 They are kind people. (NOT They are a kind people.)
 John and Peter are close buddies.
 He is in his office.
 He sat under a tree.
 There is someone at the door.
 The crocodiles snapped at the boat.
 Put the books on the table.
 There are many apples on the tree.
 A gang stood in front of me.
 The castle was heavily bombed during the war.
 He works at a factory.
 I tripped over the cat.
 He fell off the ladder.

 What kind of writer are you?
Today is Monday
Today is Tuesday
Today is Wednesday
Today is Thursday
Today is Friday
Today is Saturday
She is molested by bad men
He is sad
He loves playing cricket
Cricket is played in the ground
Media can be described as a collection of various sources of information that includes TV,
newspapers, radio, the Internet, social media and even other forms of communication as films,
literature, theatre, music and visual arts. Media plays several crucial roles such as updating on the
various activities taking place all around the globe, surfacing issues and even the achievements,
keeping a check on the activities of powerful individuals and the organisations, monitors, entertains
and acts as a public forum.
It is very important to understand that the media does not promote or create any terrorist
organisation or any related activities. It’s when the terror gets going or some suspicious activities are
detected, then the relationship between the media and terrorism becomes symbiotic. ‘Symbiotic’
here is used to define how two completely different fields get engaged in a relationship due to the
media’s need to provide newsworthy content is simultaneously mirrored by the strategic necessity
of terrorist movement for oxygen of publicity.
Media as a platform for terrorist communication
Communication is the exchange of information such as thoughts, actions, ideas and emotions. This
can be done either by speaking, writing, gestures or using some other medium of communication.
Terrorism aims at delivering messages to large sections of society, communities, and governments.
Their actions are intended to deliver their thoughts, their demands and their presence. By killing the
innocent, hey want the people in power to know about their demands and thus fulfil them.
The media acts a medium that intensifies their threats and actions to a large scale and thus allows
the message to reach large number of people. Without media, their actions and messages would not
reach far and would be restricted to the locality of point of action, thus defying their objective.
We have studied English
He is an Indian
He loves to travel.
Earth is beautiful.

Education is the systematic process of improving learning, knowledge, skill and understanding
about anything at school, college, university or other educational institutes which gives us an
enlightening experience.
Earth is round in shape. Yellow is a color. Sun is a big ball of gases. We must eat together. We must
spread harmony. All are my brothers and sisters.
 Education essay is the most important topic now-a-days, which can be given to the students in
their schools and colleges for essay writing on any event. We have given below some essays
under various words limit from which you can select your needed ones

Education is the act of learning things around us. It helps us to easily understand and deal with
any problem and makes balance throughout the whole life in every aspect. Education is the first
and foremost rights of every human being. Without education we are incomplete and our lives
are useless. Education helps us to set a goal and go ahead by working on that throughout the
life.

It improves our knowledge, skill, confidence level and personality. It empowers us intellectually to
interact with others in our life. Education brings maturity and teaches us to live in society with
changing environment. It is the way to social development, economic growth and technological
development.

Education plays a great role in everyone’s life by building personality, improving knowledge and
skill and providing feeling of well being of a person. Education has been divided into three
categories in our country as Primary education, Secondary education and Higher Secondary
education. It develops our analytical skills, character and overall personality. Education helps a
person in nourishing his present and future by ensuring aim of the life. Quality and importance of
the education is increasing day by day.

Every child must to go school in his/her appropriate age as everyone has equal rights for the
education from birth. The growth and development of any country depends on the quality of
education system set for young ones in the schools and colleges. However, the education
system in every areas of the country is not same so the proper growth and development of the
people and society varies according to the weak and strong education system of the particular
region.

Education is very important tool for the people all over the world to make balance of life and its
existence on the earth. It is the tool which stimulates everyone to go ahead and succeed in life as
well as provides ability to overcome challenges in life. It is the one and only way to acquire
knowledge and improve our skills in any particular field according to the need. It makes us able
to create fine balance of our body, mind and spirit.

It trains us whole life and brings lots of opportunities to our way to get better prospects required
for the career growth. Each and every individual need proper education to enhance their own life
standards as well as become a part of the social and economic growth of their own country.
Future of the any person or country depends on the education system strategy followed. Even
after lots of awareness programmes about proper education in our country, there are many
villages still left which are not having proper resources and awareness for education of people
living there.

Though condition has improved than earlier and various steps have been taken by the
government to improve the education status in the country. Well being of the society depends on
the well being of the people living in that society. It brings economic and social prosperity all
through the country by solving issues and identifying solutions.

Education is the most important factor which plays a great role in the development of an
individual as well as a country. Now a day, it has become a vital factor for the future brightness of
the new generations of any society. Education has been made compulsory by the government for
all the children of age 5 to 15. Education influences lives of everyone in positive ways and
teaches us to tackle any big or small problems in life. Even after a big awareness in the society
towards the necessity of education for everyone, the percentage of education is still not same in
different areas of the country.

People living in the backwards areas are not getting proper benefits of good educational as they
lack money and other resources. However, some new and effective strategies has been planned
and implemented by the government to resolve the problems in such areas. Education improves
the mental status and change the way of thinking of a person. It brings confidence and helps to
convert the thinking into the action to go ahead and get success and experience.

Without education life becomes aimless and tough. So we should understand the importance of
the education and its involvement in our daily lives. We should encourage the education in the
backward areas by letting them know the benefits of education. Disabled people and poor people
are equally required and have equal rights to get educated like rich and common people to get
global development. Each of us should try our best to get educated at higher level as well as
make the good education accessible for everyone globally particularly the poor and disabled
people.

Some people are completely uneducated and living very painful life because of the lack of
knowledge and skill. Some people are educated but do not have enough skill to earn money for
their daily routine just because of the lack of proper education system in the backwards areas.
Thus we should try to have equal opportunities of good education system for everyone whether
living in rich or poor regions. A country cannot grow and develop without the individual growth
and development of its citizens. Thus the development of any country depends hugely on the
education standard available to its citizens. A good education system must have common goals
in every areas of country to provide a suitable and proper learning to its citizens.

Education is very necessary for the betterment of everyone’s life and thus we all should know the
importance of education in our life. It enables us and prepares us in every aspect of life. The
education system is still weak in the undeveloped regions of the country instead of lots of the
educational awareness programmes run by the government. People living in such areas are very
poor and spend their whole day in arranging only some basic needs. However, it needs a broad
effort by everyone to make the possibility of proper education system in every corner of the
country.
It needs active participation by everyone to enhance the level of education system in the country.
The authority of schools and colleges should set up some chief objectives of the education in
order to stimulate the interest and curiosity of their students. The fee structure should also be
discussed to a broad level as because of the high fees structure most of the students become
unable to precede their education which brings disparity in every aspect of life among people.
Education is the first and foremost right of the human beings so everyone should get equality in
education.

It is a well-known fact that one can learn and remember things easily if it has got both audio and visual aids instead of just audio. Keeping this thing in mind, many study sessions are taken where students are taught with the help of videos. Cinema has been popular since its inception. People came to realize that students can remember more through videos than just from verbal sessions as they observed kids remembering dialogue of the movie they watched a week ago but nothing from the lecture they attended in the morning.

Young Minds are influenced by what they see

Humans have this tendency of adopting the way of talking, walking and behaving of the person they are with for a long time. A person always leaves a mark in other person’s head according to his behaviour.

This notion is more popular among the people belonging to the teenage and also among the kids of age less than 13 years as they have massive grasping power. They want to mimic and copy everything they see in the cinemas, hairstyles, fashion, actions, body language, way of talking, everything. They think that by doing all this they can become popular and cool which seems to be important for today’s youth.

Cinema has a Major Impact on the Youth

Cinema is basically considered as the best among all means of entertainment. Young people watch cinema to get relax and entertained though along with this they learn a number of new things. The normal human tendency is to apply these things in their lives too. That is why it is very important that they grab only the positive points from the cinemas.

As youth is the future of any nation so it is essential that they build a positive mindset. It is thus essential for them to watch good quality of cinema that helps them grow mentally and makes them more knowledgeable and mature. Not only the actions and body language but their level of command on the language is also influenced by the cinema.

Moreover, many movies don’t just entertain, but also provide lots of information regarding different aspects of life. It also helps the young to develop an open-minded mentality which can be very helpful for their progress in lives.

Negative Impact of Cinema on Youth

Cinema has both negative and positive impact on the youth. In the form of action, showing various ways of killing people is a common sight in the movies these days. These things affect the people watching it at a psychological level. They create a mentality among the youth that to show power you need to fight with few, kill few or dominate few. This is a very wrong notion.

Not just this, even the adult scenes, including sex are misguiding for the youth who have not even been provided sex education to understand what is wrong and what is right. Showing excess of nudity and lust can make them do things that they are not supposed to at their age. Moreover, too much time and money is also wasted on viewing cinema.

Conclusion

Hence, cinema impacts the youth in various ways. However, it depends on their maturity and understanding on what they adopt the most.
Train journeys are preferred by many owing to the various benefits they offer. However, some people much rather prefer travelling by their own vehicle or buses to avoid the downside of the train journeys. At times, it becomes quite difficult to decide the mode of transport as all these have their own set of pros and cons. Here is a look at the various advantages and disadvantages of train journey:

Advantages of Train Journey

Here are the various advantages of train journey:

Space and Comfort
Train is one of the best means of transports if we look in terms of space and comfort. There is enough space to sit and even lie down, a privilege we don’t get in the buses, cars or planes. Kids can easily play board games. Group outings become all the more fun as we can enjoy various games and activities sitting face to face.

Long Journeys Made Easy
Since trains offer berths to sleep and washrooms to freshen up, travelling long distance via trains becomes quite easy. The washroom facility is especially one of the main benefits train journeys offer over bus and car journeys.

No Restriction on the Amount of Luggage
There is a limit to the amount of luggage one can carry in the aeroplane. Buses also do not have enough space to accommodate a lot of luggage. However, there is no such restriction during the train journeys. If you require carrying a good amount of luggage then train journeys are certainly the best.

Safe Option
Train is also considered a safer means to travel compared to buses, cars and aeroplanes. Travelling in hills is especially safer via trains compared to buses and cars.

Allows Productive Use of Time
You can easily take out your laptop and work on it while you are travelling via train. You can also read your book comfortably or indulge in other tasks such as knitting and sewing while travelling through train.

Disadvantages of Train Journey

Here are some disadvantages of train journey:

Planning Ahead
One of the main difficulties of travelling via train is that you have to plan your journey months or weeks before your travel date. It is difficult to get train tickets for trips that are planned instantly.

Difficulty in Reservation
Train reservation is a difficult task. You have to visit the railway station and stand in the queue for hours to get the tickets reserved which is extremely tiring. You can also get the ticket reserved online but that is again a tedious task as the train booking site is too slow.

Fixed Schedule
Trains run on a fixed schedule. You may be required to catch trains at odd times and this can be difficult at times. Delay in reaching the railway station even by a few minutes means missing the train and it is difficult to spend time on the railway station if you reach early.

Slower Option
Travelling a long distance by train means investing a day or two in journey is unlike planes which can cover same distance within few hours. So it is not a good option for students or working professionals who cannot take so many leaves and spend so much time on travelling.

Cleanliness Issue
While trains have washrooms which is considered to be a big plus of the train journeys these are mostly not maintained well. Un-kept and unclean washrooms are a big put off. Their use must be avoided as it can cause infection.

Conclusion

Thus, we see train journeys have a number of advantages however they also have certain disadvantages. While space, comfort and the facility to carry enough luggages attracts travellers to option for train journeys, difficulty of reservation and the need to plan the journey way ahead of the travel date makes them look for other options.
Bring the attendance. 

Where is the chalk piece? 

Clean the black, board. 

Has the H.M. come? 

What is the period? 

Who is the teacher? 

How many periods are there totally? 

What is our school strength? 

How much is the first mark? 

Didn't your friend come? 

Has the book been wrapped? 

What is the lunch today? 

Maths is very tough, isn't it? 

Our ground is very neat. 

Does the fan work? 

Last period was very dull. 

Was the last period English? 

Our science teacher gives a lot of home work. 

Why are you late? 

How did you come? 

Do you have two-wheeler? 

Heavy traffic. 

The HM is very strict. 

Our teacher is friendlier to us. 

Let us go to canteen. 

Give two pieces of cake. 

Do you drink water? 

Is tomorrow a holiday? 

Why do they declare? 

Tomorrow is second Saturday.
In which school did you study? 

Are you from VHN? 

How much did you score in XII?

Why did you select IT? 

I have got payment seat.

They got 5 lakhs.

We will stay in the same room. 

I expect purity. 

You are also such.

Our college is very ancient.

We should study well.

We should get a job in the campus interview.

The class is not boring.

I think the hostel food is good.

We have a separate computer.

We get Experienced Professors.

We have well equipped Lab.

Our college is spread over 500 acres.

What is your father? 

My father is a farmer.

We belong to middle class.

Will they let us free on Sunday?

Will they provide non-vegetarian weekly two days?

No, here is only vegetarian.

I move freely. 

Are you a bookworm? 

You told me you are a farmer.

Then you harvest marks.
May I come in sir? 

Good morning to all. 

Hello! I am Rajesh. 

I am from Madurai. 

I am an engineering graduate. 

I have come for an interview. 

I did my schooling in Madurai. 

I did my graduation through REC - Trichy. 

I am hailing from an orthodox family. 

My father is Mr. K. Kannan 

He is a businessman. 

My mother is Mrs. K. Sivagami. 

She is a housewife. 

I have one sister and a brother. 

They are studying in the school. 

I have to support my family. 

I secured proficiency in English. 

I have the capacity to lead a team at all times. 

I am doing dot.net now. 

My hobbies are reading and playing. 

My mother tongue is Tamil. 

I have good command over English and Hindi. 

I am interested in sports. 

I got many prizes in track events. 

I represented my college cricket team. 

I have qualified to participate in the state level contest. 

In my village I help the poor and the needy. 

I want to help the poor always. 

I have applied for an overseas job. 

I am always sociable.
I am Karthik, doing my graduate studies. 

The name of our college is Govt. Arts College. 

The college is located in Trichy. 

I hail from Lalgudi. 

I am a day scholar. 

I attend the classes regularly. 

There are forty students in my class. 

The name of our Principal is Dr. Ganesan. 

Our Principal is a good administrator. 

My father is a landlord 

My father is a Gandhian. 

I undergo coaching classes is for I.A.S. 

I teach the poor students in the evening. 

After finishing my graduation, I will do my P.G. 

We have autonomous system in our college. 

The Professors are efficient and they motivate us. 

In March, the Education Minister will come to our college. 

I study computer in the evening. 

I want to become a computer programmer. 

During leisure period, I use the library. 

Our college is a co-education college. 

Our college is the best one. 

We conduct several meetings in our college. 

Our college got the Best College award. 

The students are always regular & punctual. 

I am proud of my college at all times. 

I have self-confidence and faith in hard work.
Bring the attendance. 

Where is the chalk piece? 

Clean the black, board. 

Has the H.M. come? 

What is the period? 

Who is the teacher? 

How many periods are there totally? 

What is our school strength? 

How much is the first mark? 

Didn't your friend come? 

Has the book been wrapped? 

What is the lunch today? 

Maths is very tough, isn't it? 

Our ground is very neat. 

Does the fan work? 

Last period was very dull. 

Was the last period English? 

Our science teacher gives a lot of home work. 

Why are you late? 

How did you come? 

Do you have two-wheeler? 

Heavy traffic. 

The HM is very strict. 

Our teacher is friendlier to us. 

Let us go to canteen. 

Give two pieces of cake. 

Do you drink water? 

Is tomorrow a holiday? 

Why do they declare? 

Tomorrow is second Saturday.
Which is your native place? 

Me? Virudhunagar. 

I am from Kanyakumari. 

How long since have you come here? 

It's 5 years. 

Did you get citizenship? 

Where do you stay? 

Are you a computer engineer? 

What is your salary? 

4 lakhs per month. 

Do you say it in Indian currency? 

How much American dollars? 

US $ 4000. 

Whatever may be, it is not like India. 

I too like India. 

What about American climate? 

Last month I arrived in America. 

I don't like America. 

I wish to go back to my native place. 

The city is quite clean. 

Power authorities are many. 

Do you live along with your family? 

No, I am not yet married. 

Do you stay alone? 

No, I stay with four friends. 

When we see our citizens, I am happy. 

When we see Tamilians, it will give much happiness. 

I like your city very much. 

It is the birth place of Kamarajar. 

Have my visiting card. 

My house is in the same street. 

You have to come to my house. 

Definitely, bye.
Who won the toss? 

Who will bat first? 

Who is the captain of Pakistan? 

Pakistan won the toss. 

They will bat first. 

Where is this match held? 

At Lahore in Pakistan. 

Who bowls from our team? 

What is the speed of Agarkar? 

Not even the speed of Sameer. 

Who is the spinner? 

He will give a lot of runs. 

The batting style of Yussof is good. 

They scored 300 runs. 

That is all today for us. 

Come let us have some thing? 

Have we started batting? 

Our openers are playing well. 

They play well once in blue moon. 

Is Tendulkar duck over even today? 

Why didn't he come to form? 

All for advertisement money. 

Who are batting now? 

Dhoni and Yuvaraj Singh. 

Good partnership. 

Wow! The huge sixer. 

That is all Pakistan today. 

Did the play end? 
Can I talk please? 

Do you mind it? 

If you don't mind I'd like to sit here, 

May I help you? 

Could you allow me? 

Would you mind if I ask you money, 

Kindly allow me to leave. 

I am happy, if you help me. 

Mind your business. 

Let me go.
What a nice beautiful present it is! 

What a nice wonderful present it is! 

What a nice smart present it is! 

Congratulations on getting good marks. 

It is nice to hear you won the prize. 

Well done. You have scored him. 

May I say what a beauty you are! 

Let me congratulate you for your success. 

Would you mind if I congratulate you? 

I am glad to congratulate you. 

How great you have done! 

I can't say mere congratulations.

Hello everyone.
Good morning everyone present here.
Who am i
I am a good boy
You are a good girl
I like you
You are the best
English is a good language
How are you
How is the weather today
The weather is pleasant
Did you eat food
Are you hiding. Did you study today. Tomorrow is my exam.
I love skating.
I have been to Maldives.
I hate going out in the sun.
It is too hot. I love eating cake. I eat chocolates daily.
Mayank pandey is a professor. He teaches networking.
    • He is intelligent.
    • She is beautiful.
    • It is easy.
    • We are happy.
    • She is a beautiful girl. (NOT She is beautiful girl.)
    • It was a difficult situation. (NOT It was difficult situation.)
    • He is a dangerous criminal. OR He is dangerous.
    • They are kind people. (NOT They are a kind people.)
    • John and Peter are close buddies.
    • He is in his office.
    • He sat under a tree.
    • There is someone at the door.
    • The crocodiles snapped at the boat.
    • Put the books on the table.
    • There are many apples on the tree.
    • A gang stood in front of me.
    • The castle was heavily bombed during the war.
    • He works at a factory.
    • I tripped over the cat.
    • He fell off the ladder.
    • What kind of writer are you?
Today is Monday
Today is Tuesday
Today is Wednesday
Today is Thursday
Today is Friday
Today is Saturday
She is molested by bad men
He is sad
He loves playing cricket
Cricket is played in the ground
Media can be described as a collection of various sources of information that includes TV, newspapers, radio, the Internet, social media and even other forms of communication as films, literature, theatre, music and visual arts. Media plays several crucial roles such as updating on the various activities taking place all around the globe, surfacing issues and even the achievements, keeping a check on the activities of powerful individuals and the organisations, monitors, entertains and acts as a public forum.
It is very important to understand that the media does not promote or create any terrorist organisation or any related activities. It’s when the terror gets going or some suspicious activities are detected, then the relationship between the media and terrorism becomes symbiotic. ‘Symbiotic’ here is used to define how two completely different fields get engaged in a relationship due to the media’s need to provide newsworthy content is simultaneously mirrored by the strategic necessity of terrorist movement for oxygen of publicity.
Media as a platform for terrorist communication 
Communication is the exchange of information such as thoughts, actions, ideas and emotions. This can be done either by speaking, writing, gestures or using some other medium of communication. Terrorism aims at delivering messages to large sections of society, communities, and governments. Their actions are intended to deliver their thoughts, their demands and their presence. By killing the innocent, hey want the people in power to know about their demands and thus fulfil them. 
The media acts a medium that intensifies their threats and actions to a large scale and thus allows the message to reach large number of people. Without media, their actions and messages would not reach far and would be restricted to the locality of point of action, thus defying their objective.
We have studied English
He is an Indian
He loves to travel.
Earth is beautiful. 
Education is the systematic process of improving learning, knowledge, skill and understanding about anything at school, college, university or other educational institutes which gives us an enlightening experience.
Earth is round in shape. Yellow is a color. Sun is a big ball of gases. We must eat together. We must spread harmony. All are my brothers and sisters. 
 Education essay is the most important topic now-a-days, which can be given to the students in their schools and colleges for essay writing on any event. We have given below some essays under various words limit from which you can select your needed ones

Education is the act of learning things around us. It helps us to easily understand and deal with any problem and makes balance throughout the whole life in every aspect. Education is the first and foremost rights of every human being. Without education we are incomplete and our lives are useless. Education helps us to set a goal and go ahead by working on that throughout the life.
It improves our knowledge, skill, confidence level and personality. It empowers us intellectually to interact with others in our life. Education brings maturity and teaches us to live in society with changing environment. It is the way to social development, economic growth and technological development.
Education plays a great role in everyone’s life by building personality, improving knowledge and skill and providing feeling of well being of a person. Education has been divided into three categories in our country as Primary education, Secondary education and Higher Secondary education. It develops our analytical skills, character and overall personality. Education helps a person in nourishing his present and future by ensuring aim of the life. Quality and importance of the education is increasing day by day.
Every child must to go school in his/her appropriate age as everyone has equal rights for the education from birth. The growth and development of any country depends on the quality of education system set for young ones in the schools and colleges. However, the education system in every areas of the country is not same so the proper growth and development of the people and society varies according to the weak and strong education system of the particular region.
Education is very important tool for the people all over the world to make balance of life and its existence on the earth. It is the tool which stimulates everyone to go ahead and succeed in life as well as provides ability to overcome challenges in life. It is the one and only way to acquire knowledge and improve our skills in any particular field according to the need. It makes us able to create fine balance of our body, mind and spirit.
It trains us whole life and brings lots of opportunities to our way to get better prospects required for the career growth. Each and every individual need proper education to enhance their own life standards as well as become a part of the social and economic growth of their own country. Future of the any person or country depends on the education system strategy followed. Even after lots of awareness programmes about proper education in our country, there are many villages still left which are not having proper resources and awareness for education of people living there.
Though condition has improved than earlier and various steps have been taken by the government to improve the education status in the country. Well being of the society depends on the well being of the people living in that society. It brings economic and social prosperity all through the country by solving issues and identifying solutions.
Education is the most important factor which plays a great role in the development of an individual as well as a country. Now a day, it has become a vital factor for the future brightness of the new generations of any society. Education has been made compulsory by the government for all the children of age 5 to 15. Education influences lives of everyone in positive ways and teaches us to tackle any big or small problems in life. Even after a big awareness in the society towards the necessity of education for everyone, the percentage of education is still not same in different areas of the country.
People living in the backwards areas are not getting proper benefits of good educational as they lack money and other resources. However, some new and effective strategies has been planned and implemented by the government to resolve the problems in such areas. Education improves the mental status and change the way of thinking of a person. It brings confidence and helps to convert the thinking into the action to go ahead and get success and experience.
Without education life becomes aimless and tough. So we should understand the importance of the education and its involvement in our daily lives. We should encourage the education in the backward areas by letting them know the benefits of education. Disabled people and poor people are equally required and have equal rights to get educated like rich and common people to get global development. Each of us should try our best to get educated at higher level as well as make the good education accessible for everyone globally particularly the poor and disabled people.
Some people are completely uneducated and living very painful life because of the lack of knowledge and skill. Some people are educated but do not have enough skill to earn money for their daily routine just because of the lack of proper education system in the backwards areas. Thus we should try to have equal opportunities of good education system for everyone whether living in rich or poor regions. A country cannot grow and develop without the individual growth and development of its citizens. Thus the development of any country depends hugely on the education standard available to its citizens. A good education system must have common goals in every areas of country to provide a suitable and proper learning to its citizens.
Education is very necessary for the betterment of everyone’s life and thus we all should know the importance of education in our life. It enables us and prepares us in every aspect of life. The education system is still weak in the undeveloped regions of the country instead of lots of the educational awareness programmes run by the government. People living in such areas are very poor and spend their whole day in arranging only some basic needs. However, it needs a broad effort by everyone to make the possibility of proper education system in every corner of the country.
It needs active participation by everyone to enhance the level of education system in the country. The authority of schools and colleges should set up some chief objectives of the education in order to stimulate the interest and curiosity of their students. The fee structure should also be discussed to a broad level as because of the high fees structure most of the students become unable to precede their education which brings disparity in every aspect of life among people. Education is the first and foremost right of the human beings so everyone should get equality in education.
I am waiting for the bus
I am getting late today
I am going to the office
I am the prefect of my class
    • She did not cheat on the test, for it was the wrong thing to do.
    • I really need to go to work, but I am too sick to drive.
    • I am counting my calories, yet I really want dessert.
    • He ran out of money, so he had to stop playing poker.
    • They got there early, and they got really good seats.
    • They had no ice cream left at home, nor did they have money to go to the store.
    • Everyone was busy, so I went to the movie alone.
    • I thought the promotion was mine, but my attendance wasn't good enough.
    • Should we start class now, or wait for everyone to get here?
    • It was getting dark, and we weren't near the cabin yet.
    • Cats are good pets, for they are clean and are not noisy.
    • We have never been to Asia, nor have we visited Africa.
    • He didn't want to go to the dentist, yet he went anyway.
    • The sky is clear; the stars are twinkling.
    • The waves were crashing on the shore; it was a lovely sight.
    • There were white-out conditions in the town; therefore, the roads were impassable.
    • Check back tomorrow; I will see if the book has arrived.
    • He said he was not there yesterday; many people saw him there.
    • I am happy to take your donation; any amount will be greatly appreciated.
    • She only paints with bold colors; indeed, she does not like pastels at all.
    • She works two jobs to make ends meet; at least, that was her reason for not having time to join us.
    • Malls are great places to shop; I can find everything I need under one roof.
    • Italy is my favorite country; I plan to spend two weeks there next year.
    • He turned in the research paper on Friday; he would have not passed the class otherwise.
    • You need to pack the appropriate things for camping; for example, a sleeping bag will keep you warm.
    • I have paid my dues; as a result, I expect to receive all the privileges listed in the bylaws.
Hello Raj, what subjects have yo Opted for in class XI ?
I have opted for Science with Maths.
What would you like to be in your Life ? I want to be an engineer.
How are you planning to achieve Your goal 
I’m working hard in Maths, Physics and Chemistry. I have planning to appear in I.I.T. after XII
How much time do you devote to Your studies
Isit in mystudy for 6-8 hours everyday
Have you joined any coaching Classes
No. Not yet, but I would like to join a Crach course for I.I.T. entrance after Completing class XII.
You look tired
You are impatient
You surprise me
Happy birthday dear.
You play really well
I had a good meal
My head is hurting
My stomach is upset
I am hungry
I want to go to shopping
I bought a beautiful dress


    1. Bring the attendance. 
    2. Where is the chalk piece? 
    3. Clean the black board. 
    4.   I have bought the car  
    5. What is the period? 
    6. Who is the teacher? 
    7. How many periods are there totally? 
    8. What is our school strength? 
    9. How much is the first mark? 
    10. Didn't your friend come? 
    11. Has the book been wrapped? 
    12. What is in the lunch today? 
    13. Maths is very tough, isn't it? 
    14. Our ground is very neat. 
    15. Does the fan work? 
    16. Last period was very dull. 
    17. Was the last period English? 
    18. Our science teacher gives a lot of home work. 
    19. Why are you late? 
    20. How did you come? 
    21. Do you have two-wheeler? 
    22. Heavy traffic. 
    23. The HM is very strict. 
    24. Our teacher is friendlier to us. 
    25. Let us go to canteen. 
    26. Give two pieces of cake. 
    27. Do you drink water? 
    28. Is tomorrow a holiday? 
    29. Why do they declare? 
    30. Tomorrow is second Saturday
    31.   Is that a pencil? 
    32.  What is that?
    33.  These are books. 
    34.  These are not books. 
    35.  Are these books? 
    36.  What are these? 
    37.  Those are not pencils. 
    38. Are those pencils? 
    39.  What are those
    40.  What is your address?  
    41.   Milk is good for you to eat
    42.   This yard is full of children
    43.  What is this in the picture? 
    44.  One is strong. The other is weak. 
    45.  That’s a good idea. 
    46.  That’s very kind of you. 
    47.  What he said is something. 
    48.  All you have to do is add the letters. 
    49.  This is my girl going into the door. 
    50. To do as you suggest would be out of the question
    51.  That is exactly what we want to learn.  
    52.   Where are you?
    53.  My father is in his office
    54.  Who’s that man over there? 
    55.  I’m sixt feet tall
    56.  It is seven. It must be seven. 
    57.  It’s very cold
    58.  It is difficult
    59.  It is wonderful
    60.  It’s ten o’clock
    61.  It is time for you to get up
    62.  I’m interested in this book
    63.  I’m very fond to you as a friend
    64.  I’m thirsty
    65.  I’m busy just now
    66.  I’m afraid. I’m sure. I’m sorry
    67.  I’m glad you like it. (I’m glad to hear your good news.)
    68.  I’m ready for breakfast
    69.   How many are they?
    70.  How many flowers are they?
    71.  How much rice are they?
    72.  What is your father? 
    73.  Are you sure? 
    74.  What are you afraid of?  
    75.   What is there in your box
    76.  There are seven days in a week
    77.  How much rice is there?
    78.  Here is a few letters for you to learn
    79.  There’s a telephone call for you
    80.  Is there a Miss Lee staying here?
    81.  There won’t be many teachers going to the party
    82.  Will there be a birthday party in the home?  
    83.   I open the door
    84.  I don’t open the door
    85.  Do you open the door? 
    86. When do you open the door? 
    87.  He opens the door
    88.  He doesn’t open the door
    89. Does he open the door? 
    90.  When does he open the door? 
    91.  I opened the door
    92.  I didn’t open the door? 
    93.  Did you open the door? 
    94.  When did you open the door? 
    95. I will open the door. I shall open the door
    96.  I will open the door
    97.  Will you open the door?
    98.  When will you open the door?  
    99.   I must get myself a new pair of glasses? 
    100.  Get me two dozen of tomatoes
    101. I get here at 11
    102.  Get the layer to explain it to you
    103.  I can’t get this lift to work
    104.  It’s getting dark
    105.  You’re getting fat
    106.  Don’t get excited!
    107.  You’ll get weed to it
    108.  Did you get that? 
    109.  I don’t get you
    110.  Get in! Get on!
    111.  I’ve got to go now
    112.  Have you got a match? 
    113. He said he always carried a gun
    114.  He said the telegram had arrived at noon
    115.  She promised she would reserve a room for me
    116.  He said he didn’t want to hire a car
    117.  He assured me he would keep his promise 




